---
title: 2.static_complete_info_out
categories: [major, game theory]
tag: [game theory]
mathjax: true
---


## Strategy, Pure Strategy, Pure Strategy Profile
---

A **strategy** is a plan of action(to achieve a specific goal)
A pure strategy $s_i$ is a deterministic plan of action for player i.
A pure strategy profile $s = (s_1, s_2, ... , s_n) = S$ represents a specific combination of strategies across all the players.

## Normal Form Game
---

In order for a normal form game to be well-defined, we should describe

* A set of players $I = {1, 2, ..., n}$ 
* A set of pure strategy for each player $\{S_i\}_{i\in I}\space or\space \{S_1, ..., S_n\}$ 
- A set of payoff functions $\{u_i()\}$ where each function assigns value to all strategy profiles
	$v_i: S_1 \times ... \times S_n \rightarrow R$ 

## Static Game vs. Dynamic Game
---
 
 Do some player make decision before others?
 
 **Static Game**: Plaer A and player B make decisions at the same time. Equivalently player A makes decision first and player B makes decision later but without observing player A's decision(and vice versa)

 **Dynamic Game**: Player A makes decision first and then player B observes A's decision to make the decision.

## Prediction
---

What assumption do we make to proceed?
1. Players are **rational** to choose payoff-maximizing strategies which are consistently with some beliefs.
2. Players are **intelligent** to know all the game components
3. 1. and 2. are **common knowledge**
4. Prediction must be **Self-Enforcing**(That is, no one has incentives to deviate)

## Mixed Strategy
---

**Mixed Strategy**: 
Let $S_i=\{S_{i1},...,s_{im}\}$ be a finite set of pure strategies for player i.
$\sigma_i:S_i\rightarrow[0,1]\in\Delta S_i$ is a mixed strategy if $\sum_{s\in s_I}\sigma_i(s)=1$ (That is $\sigma_i$ is a probability mass function over $S_i$)

**Mixed Strategy Profile**:
$\sigma=(\sigma_1, ...\sigma_n)$ is a mixed strategy profile if $\sigma_i$ is a mixed strategy for each i.

To compute player i's payoff, is it sufficient to know player i's (mixed) strategy $\sigma_i$ ?
* No. Opponents' strategies $\sigma_{-i}$ are necessary to compute the payoff.

## Payoff
---

- Player i's payoff for mixed strategy profile $\sigma=(\sigma_1,...,\sigma_n)$ 
	- $u_i(\sigma)=\sum_{s\in S}\sigma(s)u_i(s)=\sum_{s\in S}\sigma_1(s_1)...\sigma_n(s_n)u_i(s_1,...,s_n)$
	- $u_i(\sigma)=u_i(\sigma_i, \sigma_{-i})=\sum_{s_{i}\in S_i}\sigma_i(s_i)u_i(s_i,\sigma_{-i})$
	- $u_i(\sigma)=u_i(\sigma_i,\sigma_{-i})=\sum_{s_{-i}\in S_{-i}}\sigma_{-i}(s_{-i})u_i(\sigma_i,s_{-i})$

> See examples for Prisoner's Dilemma
 
